{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Medium;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww31840\viewh18140\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\qj

\f0\fs24 \cf0 In the Shenshai calendar, a year consists of 12 months or Mahs, and each month has 30 days. Each of these days is known as a Roj, and each roj has a distinct name. However, the 12th month is followed by five additional Gatha or Gah days. A major revival of the Zoroastrian religion took place in 226 CE when the Sassanian King Ardashir I came to the Persian throne. He changed the old 360 days calendar to 365 days by adding five extra days, which were piously dedicated to the five Gathas of Zarathushtra. The Zoroastrian calendar uses the Y.Z. suffix (Yazdegerdi Era) for its calendar era (year numbering system), indicating the number of years since the coronation in 632 CE of Yezdegerd III, the last monarch of the Sassanian dynasty.\
\

\b Significance of the days
\b0 \
\
The first seven days celebrate Ahura Mazda and the Amesha Spentas, (lit. Beneficent Immortals) sometimes called the Archangels. They are the highest spiritual beings created by Ahura Mazda.\
\
1. 
\f1 Hormazd
\f0 : The Lord of Wisdom, Zarathushtra's name for God\
2. 
\f1 Bahman
\f0 : Good Mind or Purpose. Presides over animals.\
3. 
\f1 Ardibesht
\f0 : Highest Asha. Presides over fire.\
4. 
\f1 \CocoaLigature0 Shehrevar
\f0 : \CocoaLigature1 \'91Desirable Dominion'. Presides over metals.\
5. 
\f1 \CocoaLigature0 Aspandard
\f0 : \CocoaLigature1 Holy (or Beneficent) Devotion. Presides over the Earth.\
6. 
\f1 \CocoaLigature0 Khordad
\f0 : \CocoaLigature1 Wholeness (Perfection or Health). Presides over the waters.\
7. 
\f1 \CocoaLigature0 Amardad
\f0 : I\CocoaLigature1 mmortality or Life. Presides over plants.\
\
The second week celebrates LIGHT and NATURE:\
\
  8. 
\f1 \CocoaLigature0 Dae-pa-Adar
\f0 : \CocoaLigature1 The Creator's day before Adar.\
  9. 
\f1 Adar
\f0 : Fire\
10. 
\f1 \CocoaLigature0 Avan
\f0 : \CocoaLigature1 Waters\
11. 
\f1 Khorshed
\f0 : The Shining Sun\
12. 
\f1 Meher
\f0 : The Moon\
13. 
\f1 Tir
\f0 : The Star Sirius, brightest star in the heavens\
14. 
\f1 Gosh
\f0 : Sentient Life or the Ox-Soul\
\
The third week celebrates moral qualities:\
\
15. 
\f1 Dae-pa-Meher
\f0 : The day of the Creator before Mithra\
16. 
\f1 Meher
\f0 : Yazad of the Contract\
17. 
\f1 Srosh
\f0 : Yazad of 'Hearkening', i.e. paying attention\
18. 
\f1 Rashne
\f0 : Yazad of Truth\
19. 
\f1 Fravardin
\f0 : The Guardian Angels\
20. 
\f1 Behram
\f0 : Victory, Triumph over evil\
21. 
\f1 Ram
\f0 : Peace, Joy\
22. 
\f1 Govad
\f0 : Wind, atmosphere\
\
The fourth week celebrates religious ideas:\
\
23. 
\f1 Dae-pa-Din
\f0 : The day of the Creator before Den\
24. 
\f1 Din
\f0 : Religion, also Inner Self or Conscience\
25. 
\f1 \CocoaLigature0 Ashishvangh
\f0 : \CocoaLigature1 Blessings or Rewards\
26. 
\f1 Ashtad
\f0 : Rectitude, Justice\
27. 
\f1 Asman
\f0 : Sky\
28. 
\f1 Zamyad
\f0 : Earth\
29. 
\f1 \CocoaLigature0 Mareshpand
\f0 : \CocoaLigature1 Holy Word (Manthra), also specific sections of scripture with certain poetic and spiritual properties\
30. 
\f1 \CocoaLigature0 Aneran
\f0 : \CocoaLigature1 Endless Light\
\
Reference: http://www.avesta.org/zcal.html}